Proof of Stake is another way of verifying that someone has the right version of a distributed ledger. Instead of miners doing a lot of computational work, people can “stake” their cryptocurrency currency into a big pool and become validators. The more you put into the “stake” the more of a chance you have of getting selected to “validate” a new block and get a reward for that. If that validator validates an erroneous block either maliciously or mistakenly, it is punished by losing a percent or all of their stake. One validator chosen by the blockchain (based on how much cryptocurrency they staked and other factors) proposes a new block and all the people in the stake pool vote on whether to approve this block or not. If the majority of the stake pool agrees to approve the block, then it is linked to the previous one in a way that cannot be tampered with. 


Many cryptocurrencies have recently switched from PoW to PoS, most notably Etherium, but why? There are many benefits of PoS, most importantly its minimal energy use that results from less computational power required. A validator uses a fraction of the energy to create and validate a block than a traditional miner, so the environmental impact is minimal. Etherium was able to reduce its electric footprint by 99% since switching to PoS. Another advantage is that it is much faster. Instead of relying on a lengthy guess and check model, validations are basically instantaneous (or as fast as the internet connecting all of the stakers is) which speeds up the rate of transactions. This rate still cannot compete with credit cards (VISA can operate over 20,000 transactions a second, while Ethereum a PoS cryptocurrency can handle 30) but it is still much faster than PoW transaction speeds such as Bitcoins stable 7 transactions a second. Third, PoS can boost a cryptocurrency's popularity and value. Since the cryptocurrency is what actually allows you to make more cryptocurrency via validator rewards, people are incentivized to invest in the cryptocurrency and try to have a stake in it. Finally, for mature cryptocurrencies, with a lot of coins in circulation and a large market cap, it makes it more decentralized, since it is much more expensive to take control of the blockchain. The disadvantage of PoS is that for cryptocurrencies that are just beginning, it can lead to people monopolizing it and taking the “distributed” and “decentralized” aspects of the currency away leading to destabilization. Additionally, it is much easier to tamper with previous blocks in a PoS blockchain than a PoW one, so very strict rules and public accountability must be well established. 