Block - A Block is a piece of a ledger (block chain) that contains all of the data including transactions, signatures, timestamps, a nonce (will be explained), and a place for a hash to be stored (will get to that)
Hash - A Hash is a collection of numbers created by putting some data through a hash function (in this case SHA-256). Each hash is unique and it cannot be reverse engineered. You can input the library of congress into a hash function and you will get a certain message, but if you change one letter or remove a space the hash function will return a completely different message.
Miner - A miner or node (just a computer) collects transaction requests, organizes them, verifies them, uses them to create blocks, and then hashes those blocks.


Proof of Work (PoW) is a way of verifying that someone has the right version of a distributed ledger. As long as everyone agrees that the longest ledger or the one with the most “work” put into it is the right ledger, then the system is stable. A miner is supposed to find a specific hash that satisfies certain requirements. For example, let's set this requirement to an arbitrary 10 leading zeros. So the miner has to find a nonce that will make the block (when inputted into the hash function) have those 30 leading zeros. A nonce in this case is just any number. It comes from an ancient English word meaning “one purpose”. It is a unique number used to verify something. In this case a miner's real purpose is to create a block and then find a unique nonce (again just a number) that would make this block’s unique hash have 30 leading zeros. This demonstrates a lot of “work” being done because there is one in a billion (0.000000001%) chance of finding that hash, so you can be sure that this miner guessed about a billion nonces before finding the right hash. The hashes are used in such a way that the hash of the previous block provides the header of the next block. So if one block in the past is changed, then it invalidates the entire chain. The hash that is just created cannot be corrupt since the miner HAD to validate all of the transactions by using the signature algorithms, checking the timestamps, and making sure people have the money they say they have. By having each block connect to the next via its hash, the miner can not feasibly change previous blocks and then try to re-mine (find new nonces to make the hashes match the ones of the future blocks) all of the blocks after the one they changed. A proof is provided in the bitcoin whitepages called the Binomial Random Walk.