Today blockchain technology is being used in monetary applications (transactions with Bitcoin or Ethereum), to create and execute smart contracts, and form Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs). The monetary applications are pretty straightforward. Blockchain provides a way for people to send each other currency completely anonymously and securely without any 3rd party watching over. The only issue with this system is that the currencies value is not tied to anything, unlike a US dollar (how well the US economy is doing) and/or a stock (how well a company is doing), so if everyone suddenly decides that the currency is worthless then you may lose all of your money. That is why crypto trading is extremely volatile and dangerous, especially with large sums of money. Smart contracts have only recently been starting to gain popularity because it allows two anonymous parties to create an agreement that will be satisfied when certain conditions are met. For example, someone (let's say Ann) is in debt to another person (let's say Bob), for 5 dollars. A smart contract would allow for this debt to be automatically repaid in many ways (perhaps in increments with interest or all at once in two weeks). This is just a simple example, but many companies, for example Home Depot, already use this technology to resolve issues with 3rd party commercial suppliers. Finally NFT’s are probably the most familiar to everyone because during the pandemic they have exploded in popularity. An NFT is just a digital signature that proves the authenticity and ownership of something, for example a piece of digital art or file. This is used by artists to stop people from stealing their intellectual property and in video games to sell unique in game items. All of these are the current uses, but enthusiasts and experts claim there are many more things that it will replace. For example logistics tracking and elections. However, there are many issues with blockchains in these fields especially with latency, energy use, and anonymousness (how can you prove that someone that voted was eligible if you don't know who that is). 